---
title: "How I Passed my CompTIA Security+ exam first time"
date: 2024-05-30
permalink: /posts/2024/30/security+blog/
tags:
  - certifications
  - Security+
  - cyber security
---

In this post I talk about why I chose to do the CompTIA Security+, how I went about learning the material for the exam, what I learned and my overall thoughts.

## Why CompTIA Security+?
When I decided to pursue a career in cyber security when researching about how to get started and what to learn it doesn't take you very long before stumbling across the CompTIA Security+ certification, which leads me to my first point.
1. Industry Recognition
CompTIA Security+ is one of the most well-known and widely recognised certifications in the cyber security field. It's often listed as a baseline requirement for entry-level security jobs and is valued across industries, including government and private sectors. By earning this certification, I knew I’d be positioning myself as a qualified candidate in the eyes of potential employers.

2. Comprehensive Coverage of Security Fundamentals
Unlike other certifications that are more specialised, the Security+ exam covers a broad spectrum of foundational security topics. From cryptography to network security, risk management and compliance, the exam covers all the core areas that a security professional should know. For someone like me, who was looking to gain a solid understanding of multiple aspects of cyber security, it was the right fit.

In short, I chose CompTIA Security+ because it offered the perfect combination of industry relevance, practical knowledge, and career advancement opportunities. It was a key stepping stone to establishing myself in cybersecurity while building a foundation for future growth.

## How I prepared

Preparing for the CompTIA Security+ SY0-701 exam was a challenging yet rewarding experience. As someone who values a hands-on learning approach, I explored several methods before settling on the one that worked best for me.

I initially explored free resources on YouTube but found many tutors unengaging and lacking structure. Eventually, I turned to Andrew Ramdayal’s Udemy course, "CompTIA Security+ SY0-701 Full Course, Labs, and Study Plan," which proved to be the perfect fit.

Hands-On Labs: One of the main things I loved about this course was the focus on practical labs. Cyber security isn’t just about understanding theory; it’s about knowing how to apply that knowledge in real-world situations. The labs helped reinforce my understanding of key concepts by allowing me to interact with tools and simulate real-world scenarios.

## What I learned

## Final Thoughts
